See you're very welcome to this lecture where I'm going to show you how to install Google Analytics
for both Wordpress and non WordPress site.
Most are going to show you how to enable a very important report inside of Google Analytics and then
finally I'm going to give you a high level overview of how you can use Google Analytics to grow your
business and direct you to a research resource.
You really want to learn more about that.
So the first step to install Google Analytics is really to come over to Google dot com forward slash
analytics and click sign.
So once you log in you can come across to our I mean you can see I've got a number of properties here
already.
But I want to create a new property get a tracking ID for this and this is a Web site that I'm setting
up I'm going to set it up for the same site.
We've been showing in our examples as well.
While as the Web site you were all going to pick arland time based on the country and the time zones
like that there category we're going to select jobs and education.
I'm going to click and get tracking ID so that we have our tracking ID for a non WordPress site.
Really what you want to do is take this hate's Tim script and paste copy and paste this code into every
page that you want to track and you really want to put that in the heading section of the page for a
WordPress site what you want to do is head over to WordPress log in and download a plugin called Google
Analytics by iOS going to search in the search bar to find out.
You can see that I've already gotten installed there and then also that over a million sites have already
installed this.
See now that you can trust this.
And once it's installed you will see a little an icon here appear.
You really want to come up into the dashboard then and you really want to authenticate your Google profile
.
Here you can authenticate it which Google I can't just click live and really what you do is paste this
code back into the plugin.
So say that an authentication code.
Now I really want to save changes then so now we want to come back over to Google Analytics and make
sure that that's worked.
It's now you see in your property section property that you have just added.
Now I want to show you how to enable a very important report.
That doesn't automatically enable c come across to property settings and you really want to enable demographic
and interest reports that allows you to collect information on the age gender and interests of the visitors
not visit your web sites.
And I can be really good information if you want to say how that targeted advertising on Facebook etc.
.
And if you want to find out maybe what else your visitors are interested so then you can develop products
and offer them products on that as well.
So very important to enable that and then click safe.
So finally if you or your clients want to learn more about how to use the data in Google Analytics and
really turn it into actionable insights to grow your business I recommend you have a look at mine Google
Analytics course and some of the things that you can use Google Analytics for and what you'll learn
in the course if you take it is having a look at all of your traffic searches so not only the search
engines and the results from SEO but social media email marketing paid advertising etc. you can really
look at all of those see what you're working and which ones you should really double down and focus
on.
You can check things like your best and worst performing content so you can optimize it and make more
of it to get more traffic to the site.
You can you also look at geolocation to really identify your primary markets and uncover new ones and
you can also use it to find other technical areas like you know one of the browsers that people are
coming into this site on.
Is it really on mobile or desktop et cetera.
So of course if you want to learn more or at the very least if your client asks about it you can refer
them to this course.